## DeepMito - Prediction of protein sub-mitochondrial localization using deep learning

### The DeepMito Docker Image

Image availbale on DockerHub [https://hub.docker.com/r/bolognabiocomp/deepmito](https://hub.docker.com/r/bolognabiocomp/deepmito)

#### Usage of the image

The first step to run DeepMito Docker container is the pull the container image. To do so, run:

```
$ docker pull bolognabiocomp/deepmito
```

Now the DeepMito Docker image is installed in your local Docker environment and ready to be used.

To show DeepMito help page run:

```
$ docker run bolognabiocomp/deepmito deepmito.py -h

Using TensorFlow backend.
usage: deepmito.py [-h] -f FASTA -d DBFILE -o OUTF

DeepMito: Predictor of protein submitochondrial localization

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -f FASTA, --fasta FASTA
                        The input FASTA file name
  -d DBFILE, --dbfile DBFILE
                        The PSIBLAST DB file
  -o OUTF, --outf OUTF  The output tabular file
```
As can be seen, the program takes three mandatory arguments:

- a valid FASTA file containing containing the protein sequences to analyze;
- the FASTA file of the sequence database for internal aligment generation (using the PSI-BLAST program);
- the output file name where predictions will be stored.

Let's now try a concrete example. First of all, let's downlaod an example sequence from UniProtKB, e.g. Q9NX14:

```
$ wget http://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/Q9NX14.fasta
```

Then, we need a large sequence database for building the Multiple Sequence Alignment (MSA) internally used by DeepMito. The MSA will be generated by searching the sequence database for proteins similar to our input protein. The search is internally performed using PSI-BLAST. Since we are using Docker, you don't need to have PSI-BLAST installed in your machine: all requirements are encapsulated into the DeepMito container image!

In our servers, we use the Uniref90 database (release March, 2018). Hence, to reproduce web server output you need to grab this release from the Uniprot website. In this tutorial, for simplicity, we will adopt a different (smaller) database, namely the latest release of UniprotKB/SwissProt. To get it run:

```
$ wget ftp://ftp.uniprot.org/pub/databases/uniprot/current_release/knowledgebase/complete/uniprot_sprot.fasta.gz
$ gunzip uniprot_sprot.fasta.gz
```

Now, we are ready to predict the sub-mitochondrial localization of our input protein. Run:

```
$ docker run -v $(pwd):/data/ bolognabiocomp/deepmito deepmito.py -f Q9NX14.fasta -d uniprot_sprot.fasta -o Q9NX14.out
```

In the above command, an important role is played by the option -v $(pwd):/data/. This option is used to make available *inside* the container files that are stored *outside* the container (i.e. in your local machine). In the example above, we are mapping the current program working directory to the /data/ folder inside the container. This will let the deepmito.py program inside the container to see the input protein file Q9NX14.fasta and the database file uniprot_sprot.fasta.

The file Q9NX14.out now contains the DeepMito prediction:

```
$ cat Q9NX14.out

Q9NX14  GO:0005743      0.69
```

The GO term GO:0005743 (mitochondrial inner membrane) has been predicted for the protein with score 0.69.

Please, reports bugs to: savojard@biocomp.unibo.it
